Exhibits page

Exhibit 1 Aeronautics Through Sports
	Sure we can show you all the formula data you could ever want to read about how a golf ball stays aloft in the air.  But does that mean anything to you?  Why don’t you try teeing off a golf ball at our Aerodynamics in Sport exhibit.  You can see the ball leave the tee and have a computer projected flight path illustrate the dynamics of force, impact, velocity, acceleration and friction.
	But, it’s not just indents in round shapes that make things fly.  Raised surfaces like seams on a baseball can change predictable flight paths.  You’ll learn about the subtle mix of art and science behind how throw a knuckleball that will float and dance on the way to the plate.  Curveballs, sinkers, split fingers will all be explained. The best part is you get to throw these pitches with specially marked baseballs that tell you where to put your fingers on the ball.  You can even see on our pitching machines how the big leaguers throw those pitches at up to 100 miles an hour!

Exhibit 2 Trains of the Wild West
	If you lived in Boston and had to get to San Fransisco, a very long ocean voyage was in your future.  But, with the advent of the steam locomotive, you could now make that journey in a fraction of the time. Imagine seeing the entire country coast-to-coast for the first time!  America is a vast land with diverse landscapes to ponder about.  And just as diverse were the trains that pulled you across the plains, up the mountains, and over the rivers.  Put on the engineer hat and operate a simulated train as you shovel plastic rocks to make Ol’ Smokey go faster up hills and hit the breaks as you head down hill to deliver the passengers at their station. You’ll learn that there’s more to operating a steam engine than go fast and slow down!

Exhibit 3 Around the Solar System and Back
	Ever wonder how those new NASA engines will propel a vehicle out in space?  It’s not like opening a steam valve like on the Trains of the Wild West exhibit. Step in side our engineering control center of a virtual space craft as it flies through the solar system collecting samples, chasing comets, and orbiting planets.  None of this could happen without you at the engine controls routing power to achieve these goals.  Bring back some good samples to be analyzed!

Exhibit 4 The Science of Sticky:
	Spiders crawl up walls. Flies sit on walls.  Geckos climb up walls.  What makes these creatures able to scale shear surfaces without falling off?  We’ve come a long way since Velcro.  You’ll take an up close look at the hand and feet of these creatures and see it’s not slime, ooze or goo keeping them from falling off.  It’s just plain old hair.  Feel up for a bigger challenge?  Put on the Gecko Suit and crawl around on our sixty degree wall.  See if you can reach the top!  The Fly on the Wall room will have you launching into the air on a rope swing trying to stick to the wall on the other side.  Just remember to let go of the rope!
	But it’s not just critters that can stick to things.  Chemical engineering has created hundreds of substances that when you apply it between two items, they’re never coming apart!  You’ll take a look at history of bonding agents starting with basic mortar all the way through modern complex epoxies. You can even mix up your own batch of SuperStick in our virtual chemistry lab.  You’ll mix up the glue and then stick a 5 pound, 50 pound, 200 pound or 1000 pound box to the ceiling.  See who can create strongest batch of SuperStick and keep it up there the longest!

Exhibit 5 Water is Everywhere
	With so much of the planet covered in water, we take it’s presence for granted.  It falls from the sky as rain, floats down as snow, makes the summers hot and humid, and cools us off as icy cold drinks.  But why does this incredible substance do so much?  You’ll explore the three different states of water through the Solid Exhibit, Liquid Exhibit and Vapor Exhibit how each state directly impacts ever day or our lives.
	Solid water?  That must mean it’s cold out side.  You know what that means? Potholes.  The ice and snow has to be removed from the streets.  But in the process the big blades that scrape away at the pavement create nicks and cracks.  The ice melts to water, freezes, and expands to displace the ground.  You’ll see in our Pothole machine how you can add liquid water to a crack in the pavement, quick freeze the ground, and then see how big the hole become.
	Liquid water?  Most flexible thermal conductive agent in the world.  Play around with our Hot and Cold exhibit to see how much energy it takes to keep water hot or cold.  The Pressure Hose area will let you shoot a jet of water at varying speed and PSI against plastic, wood, stone and steel.  See how long it can take to make a hole through each substance with just plain water.  Then add abrasive materials to give the water ‘grit’ and then see how long it takes to make those same holes!
	Vapor?  Steam was the sole reason behind the industrial revolution.  The modern world we now live in today is because of steam.  It was and still is, a viable power source.  Learn how the simple steam coming off your coffee cup has kept the world turning for over 150 years